so this this time I'm gonna talk about
learning from or for knowledge bases
this is completely different than the a
completely different title than relation
extraction which was in the reading but
about probably 60% of the stuff I'm
going to talk about here is about
relation extraction but there were it
was notably no neural stuff in the
reading so the stuff I'm going to talk
about here is very different than so in
the reading they talked about lots of
different types of relation extraction
and basically all of the things are
trying to take a big thing of text and
convert it into some structured
representation telling you about the
relations between the the different the
different things in the text and usually
when we talk about a knowledge grave the
knowledge base or a knowledge graph
we're talking about something with
entities and relations between the
entities and these are extremely useful
for question answering type stuff that I
talked about that I talked about before
and all kinds of other things if you
want the reason over if you want the
reason over entities it's it helps to
know the relations between them or which
entity is a subset of another entity etc
so one of the major things said I'm
going to talk about here is how can we
learn to create or expand knowledge
bases with neural networks and that's
where relation extraction comes in and
then I'm also going to talk about how
can we learn from the information in
knowledge basis to improve our our
neural representations so this the first
part was covered in the reading but not
neural
methods and then the second part is
something basically entirely new first
I'm going to talk about different types
of knowledge bases because some people
might want to use knowledge bases in
your research for whatever reason so
perhaps the the most one I've talked
about already is word nets
so we're net is a lexical knowledge base
that contains information about the
relationships between words so the
biggest one is or let's see
so for nouns like you have the example
here we have is relations so a motor
vehicle is an artifact a motor car is a
motor via is a type of motor vehicle and
a hatchback is a type of motor car it
also has part of relationships like a
wheel is a part of a car and it also has
a type instance distinction so a
precedent is a type and Barack Obama is
a president so or wasn't president I
guess and yeah then it also has
information about verb relations like
ordered verbs ordered by specificity so
communicate is a kind of higher concepts
than talk than whisper and it also has
adjectives which are often classified by
their antonyms like wet and dry so it
has anybody used word nut in your
research some people with hands okay
that's a that's a fair amount I think
until word embeddings came out many more
people would have raised their hands now
word embeddings kind of give a proxy for
word net
not not entirely so uh or I should
mention one more thing the good thing
about wordnet is it's very accurate so
weird of betting's give you much wider
coverage but we're net will give you a
very high precision when you do have it
so there's kind of a trade-off between
the teeth um also psyche I might have
mentioned this at the very beginning of
class I think I remember having
class but psych is a manually curated
database attempting to encode all
common-sense knowledge this database has
spent 30 years in the making a company
has been making it for 30 years I
believe there was a talk about this at
the colloquium last year does anyone
remember this maybe it was something
else there was a guy talking about
making knowledge bases and I thought it
was related to psyche but it might have
been something else
yes so inferring knowledge explained by
Sykes so psyche is this massive database
of like everything that you would want
to recent over including things
[Music]
relations it's this massive knowledge
representation thing and there was just
a press release that they released last
year that said now we have been building
this for 30 years and it's perfect so
now we can finally use it and they've
been deploying applications based on
this thing it's a very impressive
project it's also somewhat controversial
so I looking at the Wikipedia article
for cite it said Pedro Dominguez from
the University of Washington called this
a colossal failure because he he tends
to say controversial things and but you
could view it in either way you could
say it's a colossal failure just because
it's so difficult to you know express
all of common-sense knowledge which is
why we need to learn
from why we need to learn from data but
on the other hand they are actually
using this for various things um then
skipping ahead about 20 years or 10 to
20 years we have dbpedia so dbpedia has
anyone used dbpedia well about a similar
number to wordnet so that's actually
that's impressive um but basically the
idea is you extract structured data from
Wikipedia and one of the one of the
beautiful things about Wikipedia is that
started out as tax but now you have all
this structured information on the right
side and the structured information is
linked between entities it has things
like former names motto
who knew the motto of Carnegie Mellon by
the way I think most people yeah so who
knew when it was established who could
go all the way down so you can see
there's a lot of information here that
even people who are here wouldn't know
wouldn't necessarily know yeah so
basically dbpedia was the first big
effort to extract this and make it in a
structured format that you could reason
over there's also a bunch of other
databases one very popular one maybe not
so popular in in natural language
processing but very popular in the like
Semantic Web community is Yago it's a
meta knowledge base that combines
information from multiple sources that
was it's big thing Wikipedia and wordnet
it has a bunch of expansions to include
temporal and spatial information another
one of note is babble nuts so babble
nuts the basic idea behind this was we
want to do this not in one language but
we want to do this in all the languages
in the world
and then Wikipedia language link space
basically give us information about this
they linked it to multilingual
word Nets and and stuff like this and
they they had a kind of interesting way
of doing this they basically expanded
the things they could through links and
then they use the machine translation
system to expand the things that they
weren't able to do so actually
fortunately for us in NLP most of us in
NLP aren't making things like this but
there are people who really like making
things like this and they do a pretty
good job at it so this kind of stuff can
be useful in your research the second
one called freebase okay so who is use
freebase okay that's the most of all
that's actually what I was expecting but
freebase was very popular while it
existed um the big thing here was it was
a curated database so dbpedia and Yago
and everything else were largely
automatically extracted but here they
made this big crowdsourcing effort where
you could go in and modify things and
fix them and improve their accuracy or
coverage etc so a lot of people were
using this for kind of extraction type
tasks and all of this is kind of a
historical perspective of what was going
on in the 2000s and that has kind of
come I guess the other databases still
exist but wiki data is now is now
assimilated freebase so freebase was
created by a company that it was bought
by Google then Google said we don't want
to maintain this anymore and they gave
it to wiki data which is run by the
Wikimedia Foundation and it's it has
many of the good points of the previous
work its multilingual it's automatically
extracted and it's also curated it also
has a SPARQL interface so you can query
it using
using something that looks kind of like
a database query so I think this is kind
of the thing that people will mainly be
using nowadays if you want this kind of
big structuring database so anyway um
the that was the kind of overview of the
existing resources
um now I'm going to talk about relation
extraction which was the topic of the
reading and and the important point here
is all of these knowledge bases even
with extremely large scale they're by
nature extremely incomplete
so even wiki did a even freebase the
ones with the most data so a kind of
famous anecdote is in freebase 71
percent of humans weren't born anytime
according to freebase which obviously is
not true I think almost everybody was
born at some point or another so this is
this is a problem the the interesting
thing is this problem will never be
solved either by manual or automatic
means simply because every time you add
a entity to the database you're going to
be missing all of its relations so if
you're if you add a new entity you know
suddenly you're missing all the
information about that particular entity
so you're never going to be able to
solve this problem completely but we
would like to do as best as we can
using relation extraction to extract
information so the reading covered a lot
of different types of relation
extraction it covered supervised
relation extraction kind of
bootstrapping techniques semi-supervised
bootstrapping techniques also distant
supervision which is kind of a type of
weak supervision I guess
where you have noisy labels and also
unsupervised techniques the first thing
I'm going to talk about is it's kind of
hard to exactly name it because it
doesn't actually really fit in the
paradigms of the ones before but I guess
I would call it kind of a distance
supervised method or a semi supervised
method that that doesn't actually look
directly at the text but the idea is
basically we have these nice word
embeddings that we all know are are good
for things now and one of their notable
characteristics is that if you draw a
vector weird embedding space you can get
a vector that's consistently following
some relations so like man to woman
uncle to aunt came to Queen you draw
them all in that space and you're going
from a male now into a female so
actually I'm sorry this this order is
not very good so I'm gonna skip to I'm
gonna skip to this one first and then
cover the other one next so this slide
basically is taking that intuition of
using the relations to directly extracts
of using the vector transition to
directly extract relations so the idea
is you want to learn a transformation
vector that shifts embeddings based on
their relation and you optimize these
embeddings to minimize a margin based
loss so if H is our head of the relation
and T is our tail of the relation H is
the correct head T is the correct tail
and then H prime is our kind of if you
remember from our negative sampling and
max margin training for word embeddings
H is are incorrect head and T is H prime
is our incorrect that and T prime is are
incorrect field so what we'd like to do
is we would like to get the the correct
head in tail to be closer after adding a
vector now and the specter L is the
thing we optimize so the idea is you
know if we have this very nice thing
over here where we have man-woman uncle
and king queen we then want to learn
this blue vector so L is this blue
vector that moves us in space according
to our relation and of course we'll have
one vector for the man to woman
transformation we'll have another vector
for the I don't know person profession
translation another vector for the
country capital relation so we just
learn we learn a single vector that does
this transformation um is this clear
so this needs a little bit of supervised
training data so this needs training
data of true examples of country capital
for example so you had list up United
States United States Washington DC Japan
Tokyo France Paris etc and then you
could find all of the other things that
followed that relation by then taking
the country is the head adding L in
finding the closest vector and this has
a single vector for each relation with
only additive modification yeah it does
that's actually what how they'll fix
what they'll fix in the next paper in
this series so next um I'm sorry I
realize I kind of posted these in
chronological order instead of
conceptual orders so this is this was
actually chronologically one of the
first one of the first papers to do this
but it's a little bit of a complicated
model so the idea is basically we have
two vectors we have vector e1 and e2
which are like 2h H and T and the creep
in the previous life and we want to
predict whether a relation exists
between this these two vectors um so the
first way we can try to do this is we
can take we can use a multi-layer
perceptron that takes these two vectors
as input and then scores these speeds
with the multiverse where you get out is
if it's positive you're likely to have a
you're likely to have a relation between
them if it's negative here like we do
not have relation so you run it through
a sigmoid function to get a probability
that that religion exists
so this is just a classification model
they also proposed a different model
called the neural tensor network so the
neural tensor network is if you delete
this part it's just the classification
model that you have above you see so
this part if you believe this this is
basically equivalent they see made the
additive bias they've added a bias here
but that's so many difference the idea
of the neural tensor network is the
thing here which is that you add a
bilinear relationship between the linear
relationship between the two vectors and
intuitively what that means is you
basically are for each feature you're
doing a transformation then taking the
dot product so you're trying for each
feature you're taking this vector and
moving it space and if it's close here
then that feature will be large if it's
not close then that feature would be
small so it's kind of a way to
essentially extract features based on
these the linear relationship between
these two um the problem here is that
this has a huge number of parameters
that you need a features you have K
times K so this is a extremely heavy
model to learn for any particular
relation
so then I had the good question before
that this is an oversimplifying
assumption the on the other hand the
neural tenser network is has very few
simplifying assumptions and because of
that it's you know highly over
parameterised and you need to be very
confident that you can have lots of data
to learn it properly which is not
necessarily the case
um so anyway um this next model is a
model that's half way in between the two
the idea is basically that we it's an
oversimplified assumption to assume that
all of the dimensions are important for
extracting a particular relation so to
give an example let's say we have let's
say we have three dimensions like this
[Music]
one one dimension just with the just
with the two dimensions all of the
information that you need to distinguish
you have a woman is included in these
two dimensions basically but there's a
third dimension that is I don't know
[Music]
there's a third dimension that is based
on part of speech or something something
unrelated to that maybe that's not the
best example
okay a better example is what let's say
I have an embedding for my name for my
name Graham new big and they're all the
information to infer my profession is
included in these two dimensions
than all the information necessary to
infer my place of birth is in some other
dimensions so that is basically the
information that's not useful for
inferring that particular relation and
if we delete the information that's not
useful we'll get a much I guess more
concise estimate with less noise of the
relation so the way they do this is
basically by projecting the word vectors
onto a hyperplane specifically for that
relation then they verify the relation
so they have a very nice conceptual
graph or a conceptual figure in their in
their paper where basically they take
both the the head in the tail they
projected onto a hyperplane that deletes
all the unnecessary information and then
they use the use this here um this has
the added oh in here's the actual
equation this has the added advantage of
allowing you to easily handle many to
one in one-to-many relationships which
was not able to be handled easily in the
previous one so if you think about it if
you have part of if you have a part of
relationship between a country and its
States there's no way with a linear
translation like you
and also Washington State or something
like that because of course Pennsylvania
Ohio and Washington state are going to
be in different places in the space but
if you protect all of these unto the
x-axis that I just drew on the board
then you're able to do that so this
model is able to handle one too many
relations there's also a bunch of other
methods one particularly one
particularly successful one is trend
that trans our method which has kind of
very good results on this task for a
while and all of these so trip trans h's
translate our translation or something
so this entire family of methods is all
called trans something and then they
started running out of characters but
after trans so now it's like see trans
H&I trans R or whatever so this is a
paper from ACL this year by she's here
in LTI which I really liked but
basically the idea is there are many
relations but each can be represented by
a limited number of concepts so the
method is basically to treat each
relation map is a mixed mixture of
concepts with a sparse mixture vector a
and you can see the you can see this
here this is using something very
similar to the trans our method where
you multiply by a matrix but the idea is
that D instead of being just a matrix
it's actually a tensor and then you then
you multiply this tensor by kind of in
something like an attention but it's
basically mixture weights so it's easier
see if you if you look at what it looks
like here so you basically have ten
concepts where each concept is a matrix
and then the matrix that you actually
use to do the projection is is the
sparse mixture of these concepts and
you've never similar to you have
basically the similar to relation where
you are looking at the tail in the head
similar to and you can see that these
are basically the same basically the
same relation you can have hyper names
people names and you'll notice the
hypernym moment heel it's very similar
to the - in the paper name of tail is
very similar to the people in mullet
head
so this is an opposite relation but you
can see that by sharing the concepts
between the opposite relations and some
of the concepts are shared between a
large number of relations like the
similar to hyper and hypo um so I
thought this was kind of cool and it
it's both interpretable and it gets very
nice results this is a maybe the state
of the art model for this task at this
moment yeah
it's it's a matrix so the definition of
a kind of concept is a matrix and um it
might not be entirely clear from from
the equation here but basically what
they're what that's doing is you're
you're doing something like this where I
big I is old the concepts
so you're basically summing over all the
matrices for each concept where this
alpha is your interpolation parameters
for this particular relation so because
relations are similar because similar
relations exists it makes sense to share
training data and parameters between
them when you're learning these
transformations matrices the concepts
actually don't mean anything in
themselves they're just matrices but
they're they're used basically the
transformation matrix matrix yeah the
color of the heat map for any particular
relation is yes yes
um and there's also some interesting
things in the paper where if you use a
sparse if you use the sparse
interpolation weights you get
interpretable you get things that are
interpretable but if you don't use the
sparse interpolation weights you get
things that aren't interpretable which
is also kind of interesting in itself so
if you want to use some sort of mixture
model like this it's a good idea to
consider using something that sparks as
opposed to something that's okay so next
I'd like to talk a little bit about
learning relations from text directly so
this corresponds to the distant
supervision or supervised learning parts
in the in the reading so this is just
review from the reading but if you
remember distant supervision is
basically where you take a knowledge
base that you already have in hand and
then you use it to annotate a whole lot
of text data but it's annotated in a
noisy fashion and then you train a
supervised classifier of course you
could do this with just supervised data
but creating supervised data for
relation extraction like other things as
that would be too much work and this is
a quite good proxy that gets you most of
the way there so now we have now the
most important thing is that we have
labeled data where we now have the head
and the tail entity and all of the text
around it so like mentioned in the
reading we can train a we can train a
relation classifier that then classifies
relations and just add up the number of
times it thinks to particular entities
we're in a relation and then use that
and threshold that in some way to get
our extract identities um so one or
early work on this was relation
classification with recursive neural
networks so basically they create a
syntax tree and do tree structured
encoding and then classify the relation
using the representation of the minimal
constituent using containing both words
so they didn't actually describing this
but let's say this is a kind of
intuitive criterion and the reason why
is because we have Steven Spielberg's
film Saving Private Ryan so if that's
the case the minimal constituent
containing both Steven Spielberg and
Saving Private Ryan is Steven
Spielberg's film Saving Private Ryan and
if you have Saving Private Ryan directed
by Steven Spielberg this would also be a
minimal constituent and then in some
cases you also have some extra words
added on either side but it's a pretty
reasonable way of classifying things and
they used a slightly different variant
of the recursive neural network which
they called a recursive matrix vector
model I haven't seen a whole lot of
people using these perhaps now you would
use a tree lsdm if you were doing this
but creoles basically you multiply each
vector by a matrix corresponding to its
sibling before composing things together
and the idea is that how you how you
handle siblings will depend on your or
how you handle a particular vector will
depend on your sibling it's particularly
obvious if you're thinking about very
good so if you think good should be
modified by very then it's probably a
good idea to to modify it in the
appropriate way based on very but as I
said people don't really use this
particular model all that much so yeah I
think this is an intuitive way of doing
things
another intuitive way of doing things is
relation classification with CNN's the
advantage of doing this is you don't
need syntax you don't need a parse tree
so you're immune to you're immune to
parsing errors etc and they they use two
different types of features to do this
relation extraction one is lexical
features of the words themselves and
also features of the whole span
extracted using convolution so here is
an example they take people have been
moving back into downtown in embeddings
when you extract lexical features this
is kind of like a hybrid approach as I
mentioned before in class there's kind
of two ways to Nura lies tasks that
people have previously done with feature
based methods one is to take all of the
features and turn them into word
embeddings and then put them into a
neural network and that seems to work
pretty well or turn them into nothings
and put them into a neural network other
ways to completely give up on feature
extracted shouldn't and use like a
convolutional net to do feature
extraction for you and this particular
method basically does both it does
manual feature extraction and embeddings
from the words in their neighbor words
etc and then it also extracts things
with convolutional nets so the
convolutional net can pick up things
like Engram features between which were
also mentioned
is important in the reading any
questions about this silver so the next
one is jointly modeling knowledge-based
relations and text so the idea here is
that you okay so maybe maybe in order to
make this more clear that's important to
reiterate that in the previous methods
the way you would actually create a
knowledge base or the way you would
actually extract things from a large
textual corpus is basically to run this
model over all instances of an entity
pair and try to classify those entity
pairs into relations then add together
all of the times you classified into a
particular relation so basically each
decision is made entirely independently
and you don't you don't consider the
whole of the corpus um the nice thing
about this model is it actually
considers the entirety of the corpus by
extracting dependency through between
the subject and the object or the head
in the tail like we've been saying
before it encodes all of these paths and
then it uses them to make its decisions
and it models the relations with a CNN
and basically in order this was also
kind of clever I thought that he didn't
think of doing this myself but object
and then you can bind these you can buy
nice together
and I believe after they do this they do
a pooling operation based on the counts
and everything but actually and I'm
sorry I forgot exactly what they were
doing to aggregate things so those are
kind of three methods that you could
apply directly to distance supervision
so if there might be people who were are
not super interested in relation
extraction itself even if you aren't
this next method is pretty is pretty
cool the idea is basically modeling
distance supervision noise in neural
models so the good thing about distance
supervision is you get a huge corpus the
bad thing about distance supervision is
you get a lot of noise in your in your
training data and the idea of this
method this was also at a CL 2017 I
think um the idea of this method is that
there's lots of noise and your distance
supervision labels so we want to
actually model this noise and the method
overall looks like this it's actually
pretty simple you have an encoder of
course which encodes your acceptance
into embeddings then you make
predictions based on the model and then
you have a model of the noise in your
predictions so your prediction is
basically a if you think about it your
prediction is a vector and the
probabilities and normally you just use
this is is but what they do is they also
model in a transition matrix but it'd
probably be easier to save model and
confusion matrix that says given that I
made this prediction keep writing what
should my prediction
actually um so this when I just looked
at this figure itself I was like I'm not
sure if this is a good idea or not like
why it kind of looks like we're just
adding another layer turn to our neural
network where that labor is kind of
strange layer that multiplies our
predictions by a by a transition matrix
but actually I think this paper got a
lot of the details right um so the way
they did this was by controlling the
transition matrix they can adjust adjust
to the amount of noise we expect in the
data so they have a thing that does
trace normalization so the idea is this
is the trace of this matrix and you want
this trait the trace of this matrix to
be yes if the trace of this matrix is it
oh sorry I forgot one important thing so
this each
each column of this each row I'm sorry
each row of this matrix is normalized
I believe it's wrote this normalized to
add up to 1 um so basically by doing
this you can ensure if you have a
probability distribution when you get
out is also a probability distribution
um someone tell me if it's column a row
later I'm bad at when your algebra and
because all of these add up to 1 if you
keep the trace the trace will also be 1
so you want this trace to be as close to
1 as possible um so you only really let
this transition matrix diverge um when
you want though the summons each element
should be n-no no that sorry the trace
is not as I said I've got it when you're
else right I meant the they want this
trace the be as big as possible because
they want things to be along the
diagonal there's not a restriction that
the trace is equal to 1 there was a
restriction that I think the rows are
the rows are equal to 1 equal to add up
to 1 and they do that by applying
basically a soft mix before they
calculate any of the columns and by
doing that if you take a probability
distribution and multiply it by things
that add up to 1 you get another
probability distribution so basically
they're just ensuring
that this will also have so but if the
trace is as large as possible that means
you're putting as much weight as
possible on the diagonals so if you
encourage the model to do that you'll
get something that looks is much like
the identity matrix as possible so that
means if you get the identity matrix
that means you're basically saying
there's no noise in your predictions and
if you get something that's not the
identity matrix
you're getting something that says there
is noise in your predictions so the
second element of what they did here was
they started training with no transition
matrix on the data it's that expected to
be clean and then they face into full
data later so let's say you have
supervised data or you have data that
for some reason you have very high
confidence that your distant supervision
is correct if you start training on that
with no transition matrix are basically
the identity transition matrix then you
can learn a good estimate of your
predicted distribution with no noise and
then you can gradually face in the the
transition matrix to express noise so I
think just looking at the figure above
you don't really it might not be clear
don't understand why you would want to
do this but if you look at all the
details that they did it's actually a
pretty good idea I think and though of
course they got good results so we
assume the null in distance supervision
we usually assume the knowledge base is
correct but we yeah so maybe a concrete
example is good so we have the the
common example here is Bill Gates
Microsoft where you see Bill Gates you
have some sentences that say Bill Gates
is the founder of Microsoft and then you
have some sentences say Bill Gates
retired as the CEO of Microsoft so
retiring as a CEO doesn't imply you're
the founder
and because of that you might have
mistakes where you accidentally
predicted where you use that as
supervision data for founder despite the
fact that it doesn't entail so if that's
the case then there might be some
instances where you would want to keep
your founder you would want to take your
finder prediction no and I don't think
no there isn't and I don't think there
should be right so you can think that
mistakes might largely happen in one
direction a specific example of that
would be founder tends to imply CEO much
more than CEO tends to imply founder or
something like that I don't think I
don't know if that's actually true or
not but if one of the two in place other
much more often than you'll make
mistakes in that direction
so I think this is this is a kind of
cool technique that you could also think
about using for any other classification
task that you want to do as well
especially if you expect your data to be
noisy or you expect some set of some
subset of your data to be more noisy
than the other um okay
so that was what I was going to say
about relation extraction I'd like to
say a little bit about the reverse now
so the reverse is let's say we have a
big knowledge base how can we use that
to inform our models of embeddings or
whatever um so there's a wait oh I
forgot one entire section of my slide so
I'm not going to talk about that sorry
I'm still going to talk about relation
extraction so now I'm going to talk
about it from a slightly different angle
which is modeling word embeddings versus
modeling relations so word embeddings
give information of the word in context
in this is indicative of knowledge base
traits and on the other hand other
relations also could imply the fact that
other relations exist can imply that
particular relation exists so a very
good example would be founder and CEO so
founders and CEOs tend to co-occur much
more often than than other relations um
so the idea is that this is basically a
link prediction problem in a graph given
a whole bunch of links in a graph you
want to predict other links that are
likely to exist so one method to do this
one kind of early method this was in
2009 and basically the idea is we can
model
relations by decomposing a tensor
containing entity relation entity tuples
so the way this looks is we have an
entity a relation R and a and we have
this extremely large tensor which is
number of entities by number of entities
by number of relations and then we use
tensor decomposition to base please
decompose this into an embedding of the
right have been a whole bunch of smaller
relation tensors so this is I think in
the very first reading on word
embeddings this is very similar to what
people did to learn word embeddings
before using neural networks to predict
them before kind of the word Tyvek
method and so you do all this count
based stuff and then you do
decomposition and as a result you
basically get a scoring function that
looks like entity a relation relation
matrix and DB and this can give you a
score this can give you a score a that
indicates the the chance that you're
going to have this relation between
these two entities and you might notice
that this also looks very similar to the
neural tensor Network model that we saw
before there's another work that takes
us one step further and the idea is that
we have multi-step paths through the
knowledge graph and these multi-step
paths can also be useful in extracting
relations so the example from the paper
is given a word this is something that
might be kind of useful for all of us in
this class if you can this was worked by
William Cohen so if you want if you want
the system you can go talk to him you
might get it to you but the idea is
given a word a key word for your paper
recommend where you should submit your
paper so the idea is you have this graph
of lots of people who submitted papers
to other venues and then given knowledge
given this graph you given this graph
you basically apply you find paths
through the graph that tend to entail so
one example is if you have a word and
it's in the title of a paper and that
paper was submitted to a journal to a
particular journal you should submit to
that journal whose first author wrote
another paper which is in a journal then
you should submit to that journal so you
should submit to other journals that
people who write similar papers yeah
kind of lower weight it was like you
have a word that's in the title of a
paper whose first author was any author
submits to a journal so you can see that
this comes up with very kind of
intuitive paths through the knowledge
graph space is this clear so this was
this model wasn't using neural networks
but there have been a couple of works
that kind of take this path idea and do
interesting things with them so one is
optimizing relation embeddings over
paths and this is taking kind of the
relation embedding
approach that I talked about before
where you add a vector where you add a
vector to an embedding and it's just
coming up with a new training algorithm
for this for this method that and it's
up being very very effective the simple
idea is we want to optimize our relation
embeddings so that after traveling along
a path we get to the correct entity so
they have a very nice figure in the
paper that illustrates this but let's
say we want to find the we want to find
the occupation of Kappa Lincoln's temp
Lincoln's father or something like that
and based on father we know Abraham
Lincoln was tab Lincoln's father and his
occupation was president so now we have
a two-step path through the knowledge
graph and then we have a transformation
matrix for parents in the transformation
matrix oh sorry never mind it wasn't
president it was where where were
tamblyn's parents born I guess was so
then you do parents and you now have a
two-step path where you're inserting two
matrix multiplies instead of a single
matrix multiply and you still want this
vector here to be close to Springfield
and in Washington DC and this is good
because if you think about it this
introduces error propagation when you
try to walk through the space so by
using this additional signal about how
you can actually just get better
matrices here that are more consistent
with the overall structure so I thought
this was a very nice paper I believe it
God
honorable mention for the Spay perineum
NLP or something like this then there's
another paper that's kind of in this
vein this is another paper by William
Cohen's group and the idea is that
you're you want to consider whole paths
but in a essentially in a differential
framework that also allows you to reason
over reason over things while
considering multiple paths and the basic
idea is we treat each path as a sequence
of matrix multiplies um like the
previous work that I talked about but we
also have weights over these logic rules
so this is like a combination of these
two previous works this work had paths
through the vector space that imply a
relation this work was optimizing over
paths to make sure that you get good
matrix multiplies this work is doing
both so we have each of those rules is a
each of the kind of paths through the
network is through the through the graph
is a logic role and it has a weight of a
so in the end if we have all of our
logic rules out we sum over we sum over
this and then we have this path of
matrix multiplies it allows us to decide
whether whether something is true or not
um this is also in a way a little bit
similar to the like decomposable
interpret pole relation extraction model
that I talked about before but with
multiple additional matrix multiplies so
I thought this was this was a very cool
paper when I read it any questions okay
so now I'm going to go back to the
section that I thought I was going to
talk about which is not going from
embedding store relations but going from
relations to embeddings and use using
knowledge bases to inform our choice of
ethics and I guess this is a good idea
which means about 3 to 4 groups came up
with it at the same time and I'll
implemented it and did a pretty good job
and got good results but basically the
idea is we would like to do lexicon
aware learning of word embeddings so
this paper by you in der Itza is one
example of this it's maybe the most
simple example but we basically
incorporate our relational knowledge in
the training objective forward abetting
so if we have word embeddings that we
expect to be close together oh sorry I
forgot yeah sorry yeah I forgot to get
the equation to this slide but basically
the idea is in our normal word to vac
objective we want the word and it's
encoded context to be close together in
space right so we have we have a word
vector W
a context vector you want the distance
between the word vector in the context
vector to be lower than our negative
samples so basically another distance
term over a thing where we want for
example synonyms to be closer in the
space than non synonyms
so W prime is basically a word embedding
for a synonym and and W is the word
itself um and then this guy talked about
a little bit in the word embedding thing
but the idea here is extremely similar
to the to the previous one but it's done
through post hoc transformation of
embedding so this is an important
difference if you want to take your big
let's say you want to take your big word
embedding database like we're the ones
trained by Google on lots of Google data
or something like that
but you want to use it for your
particular task the idea here is that
you take the existing embeddings and
then you just transform them in a way
that is appropriate for your particular
task and there's a double objective of
basically making the transformed
embeddings close to their neighbors and
also making them close to their original
embedding so this
this objective here is basically saying
if we have Qi Qi f is the original
embedding for this word and you want to
keep you want to keep them as close
together as possible then the thing on
the right is it's basically I and J I is
the original embedding and then J is all
of its neighbors and in the grand for
all of its synonyms and we want to make
them as close together as possible um
and there's also methods for forcing
antonyms away from each other so this
this is as simple as adding yet another
objective where you want to force
antonyms you want to basically force
antonyms to be as far as possible with
Hart here which is good because then you
get things like one of the problems is
love and hate tend to be close together
because you know people love each other
people hate each other they tend to
appear in similar contexts but if you
force ly antonyms away from each other
then you can avoid that in the lexicon
yes yeah um yes I believe it does
and the reason why is because they're
using like a transformation function
they're not relearning the word
embeddings but actually looking at this
equation it's making me a little bit
nervous but I think a if I remember
correctly I believe they were using a
transformation function so it's not just
it's not just independently learning
everything and as long as you have a
transformation function you can apply it
to although their emetics even not in
your training um I see people nodding
was I correct in debt yes
um skip thoughts a little bit different
that's encoding whole sentences yeah
there are lots of there are lots of
methods that kind of do that the
transforming thing and I think it's
really useful for exactly the recently
um anything else okay
so another thing you can do this is
something that I think anybody who has a
lexicon in their hand and word
embeddings thinks is probably a good
idea to do but it's multi sense
embedding where you select cons so you
create a model with a latent sense where
you choose between the many senses of a
word and then you up basically optimize
it using a expectation maximization type
objective where you jointly decide which
sense you're looking at and and then
calculate the context so then you have
the the latent sense here and you take
the word and you venue so that is all
like I guess the the just to describe a
little bit more about this you can do
this either using p.m. or a hard EML
Garthim where you basically select the
most probable sense and then use that
you use
oh so in this case the word embeddings
are not common among the senses so this
is they actually create a different
embedding for each sense yeah um and one
thing that might yeah so I'm dead that's
all we have for today are there any any
questions about this um one one thing I
can say is that now with stuff like free
beta wiki data for example these
resources are extremely large and
they're well curated they're going to be
much larger and have better coverage
than you can get from any reasonably
sized text collections so if you have a
something where this kind of information
might be useful I think it's definitely
worth considering it because it's not
even that difficult to incorporate other
than downloading downloading the data
yeah thanks a lot